Michael Caldarone: Hi, everyone.
I'm Michael Caldarone
from App Store Games
Business Management.
Today's developer session
is called
"Get started with
in-app events."
We're looking forward
to sharing more about
this exciting new feature
with all of you today.
We'll begin with
a brief introduction
to the concept of events
and how they will look
when showcased
on the App Store.
Then we will walk through
how to set up in-app events
in App Store Connect.
Using the information
we walk through
in the first two sections,
we'll put it all together
in some examples.
In-app events is a new
feature that transforms
discovery and rediscovery
on the App Store,
giving you new ways
to showcase your events
and expand their reach.
But what are we talking about
when we talk about events?
They are timely activities
within your apps and games,
such as a game
competition,
a fitness challenge,
a movie premiere, and more.
In fact, many of you may
already be running events
inside your apps and games.
For those of you who aren't,
now is a great time
to consider doing so.
That's because now
events are discoverable
right on the App Store.
So how can events benefit
your business?
Events can help you
attract new users
and drive new downloads,
keep active users engaged
by providing new content
and functionality
within your app or game,
and reactivate
lapsed users
by giving them reasons
to come back,
even after a long absence.
Later in this session,
we'll dig deeper
into these concepts.
On iOS 15 and iPadOS 15
or later,
events appear across the
App Store as event cards.
Event cards include
images or video
as well as the event name
and short description.
Event cards appear
on your product page,
where events are listed
in order of their start date
and priority.
People who have previously
downloaded your app or game,
including those
who have deleted it,
will see them above your
screenshots, as seen here,
while users who have not
downloaded your app
will see your event cards
below your screenshots.
Users can tap
the event card
to open an event
details page,
as seen on the right here.
If they do not already have
the app or game,
they can download it
from the event card
by tapping
the Get button.
If someone already has
your app installed,
they can tap Open
to launch your app
straight to your event.
The event details page,
with its longer description
and larger media asset,
gives users additional
context around your event.
To help you build
anticipation for your event,
you can publish them
on the App Store
up to 14 days
before the event starts.
Customers can also opt in
to be notified
when your event starts.
These notifications
come from the App Store
and will launch customers
directly into the event
inside your app or game.
If the user doesn't have
your app or game installed,
they'll be directed
to the event details page.
To help you market
your events off-store
and provide
a seamless experience
for App Store customers,
we generate an App Store URL
for each event.
This URL directs the user
to your event details page,
and will fall back to your
App Store product page
after your event has ended
and for customers
on older OS versions.
The event card
is discoverable
across the App Store.
In addition to
your product page,
they are also discoverable
in Search.
On the Games and Apps tabs,
users will see personalized
event recommendations
that can help them
stay informed
about the apps and games
they already have,
find something new,
or rediscover
an old favorite.
And lastly, our editorial team
will be curating
the most exciting
and innovative events
on the Today, Games,
and Apps tabs.
When users search for
your app, game, or event,
it can appear
in search results.
This helps users, including
those who have lapsed,
more easily discover
the events
happening
in your app or game.
As you see here
on the left,
if a user that has not
downloaded your app
or game searches for it,
they will see screenshots
alongside your app icon.
Moving to the center,
if a user who currently has
or has previously downloaded
your app or game
searches for it,
they will see
your in-app event card
alongside your app icon
and name.
Users can also search
directly for an event.
On the right, you'll see
a user searched for
"june leaderboard climb",
and the Mountain Climber
app and the event card
displayed in results,
regardless of user state.
So now that we've shown you
what events look like
on the App Store,
let's talk about how
you can set up your own.
We've created a robust
set of tools to help you
set up your in-app events
and showcase them
to the right audience.
We've also updated
the App Review
submission experience
to give you more flexibility
around submitting new events
without a new app version.
We're gradually rolling out
this new experience,
so in order to create
in-app events,
you'll need to make sure
someone in your organization
with an Account Holder role
has enabled the new
submission experience
in App Store Connect.
Later this year,
all users will be updated
to the new experience.
Keep in mind that
while marketing roles
can create events,
only App Manager, Admin,
or Account Holders
can submit events.
Once the new submission
flow has been enabled,
you'll see the new
In-App Events section,
where you can create
and manage your events.
In the In-App Events section,
you will provide your event
metadata and media
for your event card
and event details page.
You can preview
what your provided media
will look like
in an event card
and event details page
to confirm that crucial
aspects of your image
or video will not
be obscured.
Your metadata must adhere
to App Review guideline 2.3.13,
which broadly covers
in-app events;
and 2.3.8, which requires
that all metadata,
including visuals,
is appropriate
for all audiences
and adheres
to a 4+ age rating.
If your event is available
in multiple regions,
be sure to use language
that's appropriate
for customers
in all regions
in which your event
is available
and accounts for differing
cultural values.
Ensure that any
intellectual property
or trademarked content is
authorized by relevant parties.
Avoid claims
that can't be verified,
such as "the best"
or "number one."
Don't include specific prices
in your metadata,
as pricing and currencies
can vary across regions
and can be changed
independent of your event.
Avoid including
the type of event
in the title or descriptions.
You can find detailed
metadata specifications,
requirements, and guidance
on our Developer site.
The metadata
you provide is used
when displaying your in-app
event across the App Store,
so it's important it accurately
portrays your event.
Let's look at
these two examples.
In the Do example,
the event name
is in title case
and is a distinctive,
unique name.
As you can see,
the Don't example
is a general call to action
to watch the livestream,
which isn't very helpful
for users to learn about
what your event is about.
It also uses all caps and
multiple punctuation marks,
which is not ideal.
Next, let's look at
the DO example's
short description
below the event title.
It provides
an accurate summary
of what the event
experience is like
and uses title case.
As with the event title,
the Don't example
is a call to action
to subscribe
and includes
specific pricing.
This is not needed since
you'll select an event cost
in App Store Connect,
which displays
whether an in-app purchase
or subscription is required
in order to participate
in the event
on your event details page.
When looking
at the visual assets,
you'll notice they look
very different.
We recommend that you avoid
including text or logos
in your assets
when possible,
especially if they include
your event or app name.
Scrolling down, you'll also be
able to select the event badge,
which tells the user what type
of in-app event you are running.
But which event badge
should you choose?
There are many activity types
that make great candidates
for in-app events,
such as a challenge,
live event, or premiere.
To help users understand
your type of event,
you'll select one
of these seven badges,
depending on
what best fits your event.
This badge will display
on your event card
and event details page.
To help you best
select a badge,
let's go through each one.
A challenge is an activity
that encourages a user
to achieve a goal within
a certain amount of time.
For example,
beating a certain number
of levels in a game,
or meditating a certain number
of minutes over the weekend
for a health app.
A challenge is a compelling way
to maximize the user's enjoyment
of existing features
in the app or game.
A competition is an activity
in which users compete
against one another
to achieve a ranking
or win awards.
This could be a movement
competition in a fitness app
or a player versus player battle
in a game.
Similar to challenges,
competitions are a great way
to put a new spin on existing
content or features.
The results of challenges
and competitions
are often represented
in leaderboards.
Live events are activities
that occur in real time
that all users experience
simultaneously;
for example, a sporting event
or live-streamed concert.
Live events must introduce
new features, content, or goods.
A major update introduces
significant new features,
content, or experiences;
for example, the launch of
new game modes or levels.
These events go beyond
minor enhancements
like UI adjustments
or bug fixes.
New season is used
to introduce new content,
storylines, or media libraries;
for example, a new season
of a television show
or a new season pass
in a game.
A premiere indicates
the first-time availability
of content or media;
for example, newly released
movies or audio.
Special event is used
for limited-time events
that are not captured
by another event badge,
possibly spanning multiple
activities or experiences;
for example, an event
featuring a collaboration.
These events should provide
customers with new content,
features, or goods.
As a reminder,
only select this badge
if none of the others
appropriately
describe your event.
Please keep these
considerations in mind
when selecting
the best-fitting badge
for your event.
If none of these badges
seem appropriate,
the content should not
be considered an event
and should not be submitted.
Next, you'll also be able
to set up the country
or region availability
and scheduling,
including the event
start time,
event end time,
and publish start time.
If an event is published
before its start time,
the event card will display
the date and time it will begin.
Publishing the event before
the start time can be useful
to build anticipation
for the event.
An event can last
up to 31 days
and be promoted up to 14 days
before its start date.
If you'd like, you can make
your event available
only in specific regions
and customize the dates
and times for each location.
Next, you'll select
an event purpose,
which is one of the factors
the App Store uses
to offer personalized
recommendations.
Most events are appropriate
for all users,
but if your event is
specifically intended
to attract new users,
keep active users informed,
or bring back lapsed users,
you can select a specific
purpose accordingly.
To help your event
reach the people
for which it's intended,
the App Store incorporates
app usage information.
That data is processed
on device
to minimize data collection
and enhance user privacy.
Regardless of the event
purpose you choose,
your published events will be
discoverable on the App Store
by all users.
But which purpose
should you select?
We'll take a look at
each one in more detail.
New users are people
who have never downloaded
your app or game.
The best application of
in-app events for a new user
is to teach them about
some key feature or content
your app or game offers.
The principles are similar
to your strategy
for early retention.
The initial experience
the new user has
is likely to determine
whether or not they come back
for day two and beyond.
While your active users
are already engaged,
you'll want to make sure
they stay informed
about the latest happenings
just in case
they missed
other communications
within the app or game.
As previously mentioned,
the event content you produce
can effectively become
its own content type,
and you want to make sure
active users are aware of it.
Another exciting aspect
of the in-app events feature
is the opportunity
to communicate
with lapsed users.
Lapsed users may have been
your app or game's
most engaged, valuable users
at one point in time,
but at some point,
they moved on.
By publishing your events
on the App Store,
you can let lapsed users
know about new features
and content that have been
introduced since they left,
and that they are
no longer discovering
within your app or game.
The Open button
on in-app events
will take the user directly
to the right place
in your app or game.
To accomplish this,
you'll need to provide
a deep link
for every in-app event.
A deep link is a universal link
or custom URL
that opens an app
to a particular place.
While you can use
either of these,
we do recommend using
the universal link.
There is detailed
documentation about
how to set up universal links
on the Developer site.
This URL will be passed
directly to your app
when the user taps Open,
so avoid using URL shorteners
and other services
that add redirects
that your app
can't handle directly.
Be thoughtful about
the most relevant destination
to direct users.
If your event is live,
you can link directly
to the event.
If your event hasn't started,
you might direct users
to a landing page
that builds anticipation and
reminds them when to return.
If a user is new
to your app,
consider taking them through
any necessary onboarding
before directing them
to the event.
Always provide a way
for users to return
to your main app experience.
Lastly, we recommend testing
your deep links on iOS 15.
One simple way to do this
is to paste the link
into the Notes app,
and then tapping
to launch it.
This will replicate how it will
behave on the App Store.
Next you'll indicate priority.
Priority affects
how an event is sorted
on your product page.
High-priority events will appear
ahead of normal priority events.
This in turn affects
which event appears
in search results
for your app or game.
Priority will not affect
search ranking
relative to other apps.
You'll also indicate
whether an in-app purchase
or subscription is required
in order for a user to
participate in the event.
This will appear as a label
on the event details page.
Once you've configured
your event metadata,
you'll submit it for review.
You can have
up to 10 approved events
in App Store Connect
per app at a given time,
and a maximum of five events
published on the App Store
across all storefronts
at a time.
This means if you are
planning to publish
any region-specific events,
they will reduce
the number of events
you can show in other regions.
For example,
if you publish one event
that is only available
in Japan,
the maximum number
of events you can show
across other regions is four.
Please be aware
that once an event
has been submitted for review,
you cannot also submit another
event or binary for review
until after the first event
is approved.
Now that we've discussed
how to set up in-app events,
how does this feature
fit together
with your larger
content management practices?
Here we'll look at some standard
event program concepts
and a few examples
that illustrate
how it all can fit together.
These are six main steps
to consider
when managing
an in-app events program.
You can keep them in mind
when creating each event,
as well as when planning
your overall strategy.
First, set the goal.
Determine your desired
impact and KPIs,
such as driving additional
feature engagement.
Next, determine your concept.
Set your event strategy --
such as target audience
and timing --
as well as identify feasibility,
blockers, and solutions.
Your concept for
in-app event submissions
should be the highest quality,
most captivating events
and not just minor updates
or content drops.
Then make a plan.
Decide when the event will occur
and who in your organization
will take care of each step
necessary to make
your event happen.
Next comes the fun part:
executing and activating
your event.
Once it's live,
you can move on
to monitoring the event
and corresponding KPIs.
Look at user engagement
over the duration of the event.
For example,
for an in-game event,
you'll want to keep a close
eye on economic indicators
and game balance
to identify any problems
before they get out of hand.
In an entertainment app,
extremely low engagement
could be the sign
of a technical issue.
Lastly, analyze your event
once it's ended.
Perform a deep dive to
understand the event KPIs
and business impact.
Consider looking at things
like the behavior
of a particular user segment
before and after the event.
You can use this analysis
to determine next steps,
such as whether to run a similar
event again in the future,
make it an automated
recurring event,
or try a different
concept entirely.
So what does this process
look like in practice?
At the top, you can see
the six steps we just described.
Below that, you can see
where the in-app events
feature milestones
map to the process.
Whether or not you have
previously employed
an events strategy
like the one at the top,
the in-app events feature
can be leveraged to enhance
and supplement
your current approach
or be your primary
event distribution method.
Next, we'll walk through
three sample KPIs
and related events.
In this example,
we are shown an event card
describing a premiere
of a program
called Climb Champions.
Our goal is
to maximize downloads
and day-one retention,
so an appropriate
event purpose would be
to attract new users
to our Mountain Climber app.
We want to share
our Climb Champions show
with new users in hopes of
encouraging them to try our app.
In our short description,
we elevate unique aspects
of the show in order
to get people excited,
such as how it features stories
from the world's best climbers.
New users can feel like
they're joining a community
and taking part
in something unique.
This next example
shows a challenge
called
the June Leaderboard Climb.
Here we want to drive
daily active devices
as well as
longer-term retention.
The most relevant
event purpose in this case
would be to keep
active users informed,
since you are most likely
speaking to more established
users.
For active users,
an event that leverages a
familiar feature within the app
would be a good approach.
In our Mountain Climber app,
tracking distance
is a core feature.
The challenge rewards
increased engagement
with this core feature.
Lastly, we have a major update
titled Guided Climbs.
if we want to drive
redownloads and reengagement
of those users who have
stopped engaging with the app,
then we want to bring back
lapsed users.
While there are many reasons
why a user stops engaging
with an app or game,
these users enjoyed it
at one point in time.
A compelling major update
could be the reason
they decide to come back.
With in-app events, now you're
able to tell them about it.
Here we are introducing
a significant new feature --
the Guided Climb --
which focuses on local terrain
and provides a more
engaging experience
through community narratives.
This new feature might be
addressing the reasons
many users lapsed
in the first place,
bringing them back in.
As we discussed,
the last step of a successful
in-app events program
is analyzing
event performance.
So later this year,
we'll be adding a new dashboard
in App Analytics
to help you evaluate
the performance of your events.
You'll be able to see
a list of your events
and the key metrics
listed for each,
so you can see how
the App Store is helping
generate visibility
for your events
and their performance.
You'll also be able
to filter events
by territory and source type
to be able to see where
your users are coming from.
That's all for today.
Thanks for joining.